Hello everyone, welcome to my YouTube
channel. In this video, I am going to
show how to find the value of m where 5
to the^ m + 5 ^ m is equal to 90
or taking 5 ^ m here we will get 1 plus
similarly here we will get 1 is equal to
or 5 to the^ m * 1 + 1 is 2 is equal to
90. Now divided both sides by 2 we will
get 5 ^ m is equal to 45.
Now taking log on both sides we can
write here
log of 5 ^ m is equal to log of 45
or now we know that
log of a power b is equal to b * log of
a. That means these exponents move here.
So apply this formula here we will get m
* log of 5 is equal to log of 45 can be
written as log of
5 * 9
or now divided both sides by log of
five. We can write here m * log of 5 all
over log of 5 is equal to log of 5 * 9
all over log of 5.
Now here this log of five cancel out
this log of five. So we will get m
or m is equal to now we know that
log of a b is equal to log of a plus log
of b. Now apply this formula here we can
write
log of 5 plus
log of 9 over
log of five
or m is equal to now we can write here
log of 5 / log of 5 +
log of 9 / log of 5
or m is equal to this log of five cancel
of this log of five. So here we will get
plus now again we know and another
logarithm formula
log of a over log of b is equal to log
of a base b. Now apply this formula here
we will get log of 9 b
5. So finally we will get the value of m
is equal to 1 + log of 9 b 5. Now check
questions have given
5^ m + 5 the^ m is equal to 90.
Here m = 1 + log of 9 b 5. So we can
write here 5 ^ 1 +
log of 9 base 5 + 5 ^ 1 + log of 9 5 is
it =
90.
Or now here we can write 5 ^ 1 * 5 ^ log
of 9 b 5 + 5 ^ 1 * 5 ^ log of 9 5 is
equal to 90
or 5 ^ 1 that means 5 * now you know
that
a to the power log of b base A is equal
to B. Now apply this formula here we
will get 9
plus similarly this 5 * 9 is it = 90
or 5 * 9 is 45. So 45 + 45
is it = 90. Now we know that 45 + 45 is
90. So we can write here 90 is equal to
90.
So the value of m is equal to
+ log of 9 base 5 is correct. Thanks for
watching. If you like this video, please
subscribe to my channel and see you in
the next video. Bye-bye.